
\section{Knowledge Management}
\label{sec:km}

Software development is inherently a knowledge-intensive activity. Software
designers and developers leverage their software-development skills, along with
domain knowledge, past experiences, and the knowledge of team members, to solve
the problem at hand, such as implementing a new feature or resolving a bug.  In
small, collocated teams, knowledge management is not a big challenge---people's
expertise on different parts of a system is typically known. New team members
can use informal communication channels to identify experts and seek their help
as needed.

However, as teams increase in size or become geographically distributed,
knowledge management starts to become challenging. In large or distributed
teams, system knowledge---\eg expertise, dependencies, best practices---is
spread across multiple people, locations, and (in the case of outsourcing) even
organizations~\cite{Desouza:2006}. In such projects, a knowledge-management
system is needed to create \textit{project memories} that can serve different
needs. First, it should assist new team members in understanding the project
with little or no face-to-face guidance and identifying experts to reach out to
for questions. Second, the system should help existing team members identify the
artifacts relevant, and the people they might need to coordinate with, for
performing a task. Existing attempts at creating such project memories include
Hipikat~\cite{Murphy:2005} and Codebook~\cite{Begel:2010}.

A service company has a large, geographically distributed employee base, with
frequent employee churn at project and organization levels. To maintain
consistent delivery quality, it is essential to manage knowledge at the project
level. Moreover, because services is a price-sensitive business, there is also
the need to be cheaper and better, by doing more with fewer or less-skilled
resources. Driven by this need to gain competitive advantage in increasingly
competitive markets, it becomes essential for companies to build
\textit{organization memories} that store the collective knowledge of past
engagements, processes, and people to increase productivity and reduce
activities that ``reinvent the wheel.'' The intent behind such a system is to
ensure that the knowledge of past or current employees is available to other
employees when the need arises. Thus, the organization should be able to
leverage learning and solutions from past client engagements in the context of a
new similar engagement, even when members from the past projects are not around.

The need for organization-level knowledge bases is well established in the
management literature~\cite{davenport2000working,bollinger2001managing}. Equally
well known is the fact that creating an effective organization-wide knowledge
base is very challenging~\cite{McKinsey:1999,Harvard:1999,Ernst:1997}. There are
challenges in: (1) \textit{knowledge creation}---how to codify explicit and
tacit knowledge and motivate individuals to contribute; (2) \textit{knowledge
  retrieval}---data versus information versus knowledge; (3) \textit{knowledge
  governance}---legitimacy, relevance, and quality of contributed
knowledge. Alavi and Leidner~\cite{Alavi:2001} present a good overview of
research issues in organization knowledge management. Prior research suggests
that IT is incapable of capturing organizational knowledge
\cite{malhotra2004knowledge,mcdermott2000information}, but also postulates that
IT is the strongest enabler for organization knowledge management systems
(OKMS).

Next, we present three scenarios illustrating the need for OKMS in service
companies. Then, we discuss promising research directions based on our
experience with building systems intended to promote knowledge reuse in these
scenarios.

\subsection{Scenarios for OKMS}

In this section, we present three typical scenarios in service delivery that can
benefit from an organization knowledge management system.

\subsubsection{Troubleshooting}

One of the common forms of service engagements is application maintenance, where
the expectation from the service provider is to take over a client's custom
application and handle service requests for it.  Service requests come in the
form of trouble ``tickets'': users of the applications can raise a ticket,
logging a problem they have experienced. This is similar to defect logging in
bug repositories, such as Bugzilla, where users of an open-source software can
enter the details of a problem that they encountered.  The main difference is
that, in typical software development in open-source communities, there is no
obligation on the development team to address the defects in a timely
fashion. Likewise, even in a product setting, the development team can
prioritize which defects they are going to address first.  In service context,
the service provider is supposed to resolve the ticket in a timely manner, often
under a service-level agreement. For example, a critical bug must be resolved
within 6~hours, at risk of financial consequences for the provider.

Software development in service organizations is not pure custom
implementations. In many cases, packaged applications, such as SAP, Oracle, and
COTS products, with client-specific customizations and external libraries are
used. The cause of a problem ticket could be in the customization done for the
client, in the way external code is used, or even a bug in the external code. If
the issue is with the configuration or the external code, it is very likely that
the same (or a similar) issue has been resolved previously in the context of
another client. Thus, if the person attempting to resolve the current ticket had
access to previously resolved tickets addressing similar problems, they could be
much more efficient and effective at their task.  Therefore, a knowledge base
that stores past resolved tickets across clients would be a useful
organization-wide resource. 

In a way, such a knowledge base would be similar to public question-and-answer
forums we see on various software languages, tools, and open-source projects on
the web.

\subsubsection{Design-build Projects}

Another common form of service engagement is business-process transformation,
where the expectation from the service provider is to IT-enable a business
process, such as payroll management, vendor management, order-to-cash, for a
client. Some business processes (\eg payroll management) would be required by
all clients, whereas other processes would be common in a particular domain (\eg
claim-management process in the insurance domain).  The client expectation is
that the service provider possesses adequate knowledge of the generic version of
a particular process, creates client-specific variations, and implements the
system. Typically, this requires that the vendor team working on the project has
significant domain experience.

A knowledge-management system that stores past business process implementations
across the organization can help in this scenario. The past solutions need to be
organized by domain to make retrieval of relevant information
easier. Appropriate documentation that explains the standard and customized
portions of past solutions needs to be available, along with the solution
code. While designing a new business-process solution, the team can search
through the repository to learn about the variations of the process to be
implemented and, if the client requirements are not too different from a past
solution, even reuse the solution in totality or parts. This can reduce the
overall cost and also potentially let the service provider staff the team with
people with less domain experience. 

Code reuse, at different levels of granularity---lines-of-code level, API level,
and even complete solutions---has been an area of interest in the
software-engineering community~\cite{Reiss:2009,Holmes:2013}. Much of this work
could be applied in the setting of a service company too.

\subsubsection{Service Improvement}

When a client outsources its application maintanence to another organization,
one of the key expectations is that the vendor would bring down their total cost
of ownership over time. This requires the vendor to proactively seek out areas
for improvement in the client application portfolio. One way to determine
whether there is scope of improvement in an application in the client IT
landscape is by benchmarking its performance against other similar applications
in other client landscapes. To illustrate, suppose that a service company
maintains the payroll applications for 10~clients. For nine of the clients, the
monthly ticket volumes range between 5 and 10 tickets, whereas, for the
remaining client (say client~A), the ticket volume ranges from 20 to 50. This
indicates that, for client~A, investigations could be conducted to determine the
root causes for high ticket volumes and appropriate preventive actions
taken. Moreover, if a similar high-ticket-volume problem was seen in the past in
another client's payroll system, information about the actions taken for that
client could help the team resolve the problem for client~A.

There are a number of organizations that gather and report quantitative
benchmark information (qualitiative as well as productivity) for software
projects and business applications depending on language used to code, number of
users etc. CAST, Software Engineering Institute are some examples of such
organizations. However, considering services organizations are doing multiple
software implementations for multiple clients, an organization-wide knowledge
base that (1) captures key operational metrics per application (or at a more
granular level, such as by problem area) per client and the past improvement
actions taken, and (2) allows comparisons between clients with similar
applications and problems encountered, would help augment what is publicly
available and be more useful.

\begin{figure*}
	\center
	\includegraphics[scale=0.4]{figs/km.png}
        \vspace*{-10pt}
	\caption{System architecture for an OKMS system for a service company.}
        \vspace*{-10pt}
	\label{fig-km}
\end{figure*}

\subsection{Research Topics}

Based on such OKMS needs in IBM's service-delivery organization, there have been
efforts toward implementing systems to address the needs. These include a system
for promoting solution reuse in design-build engagements centered around
business-process transformation~\cite{Goodwin:2012b}, and a system for sharing
information about problem tickets across client
engagements~\cite{Majumdar:2011}.

We next discuss some core problems that need to be addressed in creating OKMS in
service organizations. At the simplest level, an OKMS is a database where
content can be stored and retrieved from. However, what content should be
stored, how easily can the content be stored, and the ease with which relevant
content can be retrieved determines the usefulness of an OKMS.
Figure~\ref{fig-km} presents several activities (shown as block arrows) that
need to be performed in creating and using an OKMS; for each activity, the
figure displays relevant topics (shown in the boxes) that would benefit from
further research. The activities are broadly classified into two categories:
knowledge creation and knowledge retrieval.

\input{km_create}

\input{km_retrieve}
